.\" Manpage for CherryMusic.
.\" Contact us on github.com/devsnd/cherrymusic to correct errors or typos.

.TH "CHERRYMUSIC.CONF" "5" "2013\-11\-19" "CherryMusic" "cherrymusic.conf man page"

.SH "NAME"
cherrymusic.conf \- configuration file of CherryMusic, see \fBcherrymusic\fP(1)

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
cherrymusic.conf

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The cherrymusic.conf file is the configuration file used to fine tune the CherryMusic server.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.IP "[media]"

.IP "\fB    basedir = /path/to/your/music\-collection\fP"
"basedir" specifies where the media that should be served is located. It must be the absolute path, e.g. "basedir = /absolute/path/to/media".

Links: If your operating system supports them, you can use symlinks directly in "basedir". Links to directories which contain "basedir" will be ignored, just like all links not directly in, but in sublevels of "basedir". This is to guard against the adverse effects of link cycles.

.IP "\fB    transcode = True | False\fP"
(Experimental!) "transcode" enables automatic live transcoding of the served media files to be able to listen to every format on every device. This requires you to have the appropriate encoders installed. Please note that transcoding will significantly increase the load on the CPU!

.IP "\fB    fetch_album_art = True | False\fP"
This option tries to fetch the album covers from various locations in the web, if no image is found locally. By default it will be fetched from Amazon. They will be shown next to folders that qualify as an album.

.IP "\fB    maximum_download_size = BYTESIZE\fP"
CherryMusic has a feature that allows certain users (who can be chosen by the admin in the admin panel) to download the audio files contained in a playlist. BYTESIZE sets the maximum size in bytes of all files to be downloaded by a user in one zip file. It defaults to 250 MB.

.IP "[search]"

.IP "\fB    maxresults = NUMBER\fP"
"maxresults" sets the maximum amount of search results to be displayed. If "maxresults" is set to a higher value, the search will take longer, but will also be more accurate.

.IP "\fB    load_file_db_into_memory = True | False\fP"
This will load parts of the database into memory for improved performance. This option should only be used on systems with sufficient memory, because it will hurt the performance otherwise.

.IP "[browser]"

.IP "\fB    pure_database_lookup = True | False\fP"
." If this option is enabled, CherryMusic will only use the media database \-\- never the filesystem \-\- for content lookups in the file browser and search function. This can be useful if the media files reside on an external hard drive or behind a slow network connection.

.IP "\fB    maxshowfiles = NUMBER\fP"
"maxshowfiles" specifies how many files and folders should be shown at the same time. E.g. if you open a folder with more than NUMBER files or folders in it, the files will be grouped according to the first letter in their name. 100 is a good value, as a CD can have up to 99 tracks.

.IP "[server]"

.IP "\fB    port = PORTNUMBER\fP"
This specifies the port the server will listen on.

.IP "\fB    ipv6_enabled = True | False\fP"
When set to "True", the server will listen on an IPv6 socket instead of IPv4.

.IP "\fB    localhost_only = True | False\fP"
When "localhost_only" is set to "True", the server will not be visible in the network and only play music on the same computer it is running on.

.IP "\fB    rootpath = ROOTPATH\fP"
This is the path CherryMusic will be available on. Normally, you will want to leave this as "/". That way CherryMusic is available under e.g. "localhost:8080". You might want to change this path if CherryMusic runs behind a reverse proxy. For example changing it to "/cherrymusic" will make it available under e.g. "localhost:8080/cherrymusic".

.IP "\fB    localhost_auto_login = True | False\fP"
When "localhost_auto_login" is set to "True", the server will not ask for credentials when connecting locally. The user will be automatically logged in as admin.

.IP "\fB    permit_remote_admin_login = True | False\fP"
When "permit_remote_admin_login" is set to "False", admin users may only log in from the computer CherryMusic is currently running on. This can improve security.

.IP "\fB    keep_session_in_ram = True | False\fP"
If enabled, this option will keep the user sessions in RAM instead of a file in the configuration directory. This means, that any unsaved playlists will be lost when the server is restarted.

.IP "\fB    ssl_enabled = True | False\fP"
This option allows you to use CherryMusic with HTTPS encryption. To enable this option you also have to specify "ssl_port", "ssl_certificate" and "ssl_private_key". If this option is set to "False", all other SSL specific options will be ommited.

.IP "\fB    ssl_port = SSLPORTNUMBER\fP"
This sets the port that will listen to SSL encrypted requests. If "ssl_enabled" is set to "True", all unencrypted HTTP requests will be redirected to this port. To take effect, this option needs "ssl_enabled" to be set to "True".

.IP "\fB    ssl_certificate = /path/to/server.crt\fP"
This is the path to the SSL certificate that CherryMusic will use for SSL encryption. To take effect, this option needs "ssl_enabled" to be set to "True".

.IP "\fB    ssl_private_key = /path/to/server.key\fP"
This is the path to the SSL key that CherryMusic will use for SSL encryption. To take effect, this option needs "ssl_enabled" to be set to "True".

.IP "[general]"

.IP "\fB    update_notification = True | False\fP"
If enabled, admins are notified about available security and feature updates when logging on in the web interface.

.SH "FILES"
According to XDG Base Directory Specification, CherryMusic honors $XDG_CONFIG_HOME. If this variable is empty or not set, the configuration file is stored using the standard path:

~/.config/cherrymusic/cherrymusic.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcherrymusic\fP(1), \fBcherrymusicd\fP(8)

.SH "BUGS"
You've found a bug in CherryMusic? That's awesome. Tell us about it! You can open an issue in the issue tracker of our github project page (github.com/devsnd/cherrymusic/issues) and we'll take care of it.

.SH "AUTHORS"
CherryMusic was created by Tom Wallroth and is currently developed together with Tilman Börner.

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE - Version 3, 29 June 2007
